# :test_tube: Continuous Deployment

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->

!!! quote ":octicons-milestone-16: Deliver high quality value at speed"

    > Continuous deployment (CD) is the practice of using automation to publish and deploy software updates.
    >
    > To ultimately fulfill our goal on complete development of the feature, we altogether apply the practice of continuous deployment to validate and ship the value to our customers at high velocity.

---

## Exercise: Automate Deployment of Releases

The previous exercise walked us through automating the publication of release. We will continue to build upon that milestone to automate deployment of published releases.

---

### **:material-numeric-1-circle: Implement Deployment Workflow**

In the file explorer, create a new workflow `.github/workflows/continuous.deployment.yml` as follows.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/continuous.deployment.yml" linenums="1" hl_lines="3-6 9-11 26-28 37-38 40-63 65-69 71-76"
--8<-- "reference.implementations/workflows/3.continuous.deployment.yml"
```

---

#### Analysis

- **Lines `3 - 6`**

    Deployments will be triggered in the event of a release publication.

- **Lines `9 - 11`**

    Ensure that only a single job or workflow using the same concurrency group will run at a time.

    When a concurrent job or workflow is queued, if another job or workflow using the same concurrency group in the repository is in progress, the queued job or workflow will be pending. Any previously pending job or workflow in the concurrency group will be canceled. If you do not wish to also cancel any currently running job or workflow in the same concurrency group, specify `cancel-in-progress: false`.

- **Lines `26 - 28`**

    This will cause the URL of the deployed site to be displayed where the workflow is executed.

- **Lines `37 - 38`**

    This step enables [GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages) and extracts various metadata about a site. It can also be used to configure various static site generators we support as starter workflows.

- **Lines `40 - 63`**

    Download assets associated with the release publication that triggered this workflow, and where necessary, adjust permissions for the files in the assets.

- **Lines `65 - 69`**

    Upload the site artifacts to the storage location where it should be ultimately collected by the next step for deployment.

- **Lines `71 - 75`**

    This step deploys the site.

---

### **:material-numeric-2-circle: Commit and publish your changes**

!!! tip "You can link your changes to an issue"

    Recall the issue you created earlier and its respective issue number, you will use it to link your current changes to the issue.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Create to tetris game to drive site engagement\n\n-Implement continuous deployment\n\n- Resolves #<ISSUE-NUMBER>"
git push origin feature/tetris-game
```

---

## 📚 Resources

- [Using environments for deployment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment)
- [Creating custom deployment protection rules](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/protecting-deployments/creating-custom-deployment-protection-rules)
- [Security harden deployments with OpenID Connect](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect)

---
